Rtrieu/docs 5250 mobile session replay (#18440)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/privacy_options.md

[ add android content]

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // mask all text elements
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   // mask only input elements
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskUserInput)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   // no masking; all text is revealed
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .allowAll)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Masking modes

By default, the `mask all` setting is enabled for all data. Using the masking modes below, you can override the default setup on a per-application basis.

| Masking mode | Description | Example |
|--------------|-------------|---------|

> | `mask all` | All text content on screen is replaced with X's. | {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-mask-all.png" alt="Enable mask all to replace all text content on the screen with X's" style="width:40%;">}} |

Reviewer: @rtrieu wdyt about making this just two columns? the screenshot feels too small to really get anything meaningful out of it IMO

Author: @jamiemilstein I can make it 2 columns for now, but would definitely like to see the other two screenshots when they are available to see if we can work something out!

Author: Decided to turn it into paragraph form. The screenshots might make more sense this way.

Reviewer: added the screenshot for allow all -- waiting to find one for mask user input

| `mask user input` | Any input field is replaced with anonymized text. | {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-mask-user-input.png" alt="Enable mask all to replace all text content on the screen with X's" style="width:40%;">}} |
| `allow all` | All text is revealed. <br> <br> **Note**: Even with this option enabled, any sensitive text fields such as passwords, emails, phone numbers, and addresses are still masked. | {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-allow-all.png" alt="Enable mask all to replace all text content on the screen with X's" style="width:40%;">}} |

> ### Unmask data in all recorded content

Reviewer: @rtrieu @mariusc83 IMO this section is now repetitive: in the beginning we will talk about the code snippets for the different masking settings (like how iOS has) and thus that will cover how to unmask data in recorded content. thoughts on cutting this?

Author: Yeah, let me consolidate this content.

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
kind: documentation
description: Describes how to configure privacy options for Mobile Session Replay
aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Overview

Session Replay provides privacy controls to ensure organizations of any scale do not expose sensitive or personal data. Data is stored on Datadog-managed cloud instances and encrypted at rest.

Default privacy options for Session Replay are designed to protect end user privacy and prevent sensitive organizational information from being collected.

By enabling Mobile Session Replay, you can automatically mask sensitive elements from being recorded through the RUM Mobile SDK. When data is masked, that data is not collected in its original form by Datadog's SDKs and thus is not sent to the backend.

> ## Configuration

Reviewer: @mariusc83 placeholder -- can you drop in the code snippet here for what a user would need to do to override the default masking setttings?

Reviewer: tabs to do it for both iOS and android if there are differences

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

[ add android content]

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "iOS" %}}

Reviewer: @ncreated are these code snippets still accurate for iOS?

By default, the `mask all` setting is enabled for all data. With this setting enabled, all text content on screen is replaced with X's, as shown below.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-mask-all.png" alt="What your application screen may resemble when `mask all` is enabled." style="width:60%;">}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

[ add android content]

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // mask all text elements
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Mask only input elements

With the `mask user input` setting enabled, any input field is replaced with anonymized text. 

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

[ add android content]

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
            .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.MASK_USER_INPUT)
            .build()
        SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
```

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
   // mask only input elements
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskUserInput)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Allow all (no masking)

With the `allow all` setting enabled, all text is revealed.

**Note**: Even with this option enabled, any sensitive text fields such as passwords, emails, phone numbers, and addresses are still masked. For more information, see [Text masking definitions](#text-masking-definitions).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

[ add android content]

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
            .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.ALLOW)
            .build()
        SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
```

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // no masking; all text is revealed
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .allowAll)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Unmask data in all recorded content
By default, the Session Replay recorder masks all recorded content with `*` to ensure no sensitive information is visible in the recorded session. If you want to change this, add this option to **unmask data in all recorded content**:

   {{< code-block lang="kotlin" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

>    val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
```

---
title: Mobile Session Replay Privacy Options
kind: documentation

> description: Describes how to configure privacy options for Mobile Session Replay

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Configure privacy options for Mobile Session Replay.
```

aliases:
further_reading:
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/app_performance'
      tag: Documentation
      text: How Mobile Session Replay Impacts App Performance
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/setup_and_configuration'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Setup and Configure Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Overview

Session Replay provides privacy controls to ensure organizations of any scale do not expose sensitive or personal data. Data is stored on Datadog-managed cloud instances and encrypted at rest.

> Default privacy options for Session Replay are designed to protect end user privacy and prevent sensitive organizational information from being collected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Default privacy options for Session Replay protect end user privacy and prevent sensitive organizational information from being collected.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-allow-all-2.png" alt="What your application screen may resemble when `allow` is enabled." style="width:50%;">}}

**Note**: Even with this option enabled, any sensitive text fields, such as passwords, emails, phone numbers, and addresses are still masked. For more information, see [Text masking definitions](#text-masking-definitions).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // no masking; all text is revealed
   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
      .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.ALLOW)
      .build()
   SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}
   // no masking; all text is revealed
    SessionReplay.enable(
        with: SessionReplay.Configuration(
            replaySampleRate: sampleRate,
            defaultPrivacyLevel: .allow
        )
    )

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ## Understanding how and what data is masked

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## How and what data is masked
```

> Find below a description of how Datadog's recorder handles masking based on data type and how that data is defined. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section describes how the Datadog recorder handles masking based on data type and how that data is defined. 
```

### Text masking strategies

Depending on how you've configured your privacy settings, the type of text, and sensitivity of data, Datadog's masking rules apply different strategies to different types of text fields.

| Text masking strategy | Description | Example |
|-----------------------|-------------|---------|
| No mask | The text is revealed in the session replay | `"Hello world"` → `"Hello world"` |
| Space-preserving mask | Each visible character is replaced with a lowercase "x" | `"Hello world"` → `"xxxxx xxxxx"` |
| Fixed-length mask | The entire text field is replaced with a constant of three asterisks (***) | `"Hello world"` → `"***"`

With the above text strategies in mind, you have a few different options if you want to override the default privacy rule of `mask` in your configuration.

> The following chart shows how we apply different text masking strategies, using the rules you set up in your configuration, to the below text types.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following chart shows how Datadog applies different text masking strategies, using the rules you set up in your configuration, to the below text types.
```

    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/setup_and_configuration'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Setup and Configure Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/troubleshooting'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Troubleshoot Mobile Session Replay
    - link: '/real_user_monitoring/session_replay'
      tag: Documentation
      text: Session Replay
---

## Overview

Session Replay provides privacy controls to ensure organizations of any scale do not expose sensitive or personal data. Data is stored on Datadog-managed cloud instances and encrypted at rest.

Default privacy options for Session Replay are designed to protect end user privacy and prevent sensitive organizational information from being collected.

By enabling Mobile Session Replay, you can automatically mask sensitive elements from being recorded through the RUM Mobile SDK. When data is masked, that data is not collected in its original form by Datadog's SDKs and thus is not sent to the backend.

## Configuring masking modes

Using the masking modes below, you can override the default setup on a per-application basis.

### Mask all text elements

> By default, the `mask all` setting is enabled for all data. With this setting enabled, all text content on screen is replaced with X's, as shown below.

Reviewer 4: The _"all text content on screen is replaced **with X's**, as shown below"_ is slightly misleading. It can be `x`'es or `*`'s depending on the type of content we're masking (which can be even seen on the picture we link in the next line). It is well explained in `### Text masking strategies` further.

What I can propose is to avoid mentioning the masking strategy, instead just say it's masked:
```suggestion
By default, the `mask all` setting is enabled for all data. With this setting enabled, all text content on screen is replaced with a mask, as shown below.
```

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-mask-all.png" alt="What your application screen may resemble when `mask all` is enabled." style="width:60%;">}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // mask all text elements
   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])

>        .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.MASK_ALL)

Reviewer 4: @mariusc83 Isn't it `MASK`, `ALLOW` and `MASK_USER_INPUT` now? At least that's [what I see in code](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-android/blob/a898f208524ec31748afaa4f40247ff73ba70913/features/dd-sdk-android-session-replay/src/main/kotlin/com/datadog/android/sessionreplay/SessionReplayPrivacy.kt#L54-L74), but we have different names here in doc.

Author: Updated, thanks for the callout.

       .build()
   SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

>    // mask all text elements
>    let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskAll)
>    sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
>    sessionReplay.start()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    SessionReplay.enable(
        with: SessionReplay.Configuration(
            replaySampleRate: sampleRate,
            defaultPrivacyLevel: .mask
        )
    )
```

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Mask only input elements

With the `mask user input` setting enabled, any input field is replaced with anonymized text. 

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-user-input.png" alt="What your application screen may resemble when user input fields are masked." style="width:60%;">}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // mask only input elements
   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
       .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.MASK_USER_INPUT)
       .build()
   SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

>    // mask only input elements
>    let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .maskUserInput)
>    sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
>    sessionReplay.start()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    SessionReplay.enable(
        with: SessionReplay.Configuration(
            replaySampleRate: sampleRate,
            defaultPrivacyLevel: .maskUserInput
        )
    )
```

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Allow all (no masking)

With the `allow all` setting enabled, all text is revealed.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/session_replay/mobile/masking-mode-allow-all.png" alt="What your application screen may resemble when `allow all` is enabled." style="width:60%;">}}

**Note**: Even with this option enabled, any sensitive text fields, such as passwords, emails, phone numbers, and addresses are still masked. For more information, see [Text masking definitions](#text-masking-definitions).

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="javascript" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // no masking; all text is revealed
   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
      .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.ALLOW)
      .build()
   SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

> 
>    // no masking; all text is revealed
>    let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .allowAll)
>    sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
>    sessionReplay.start()

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    SessionReplay.enable(
        with: SessionReplay.Configuration(
            replaySampleRate: sampleRate,
            defaultPrivacyLevel: .allow
        )
    )
```

   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
    ...
   .setSessionReplayPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.[PRIVACY])
   .build()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

This option is not available for iOS.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Understanding how and what data is masked

Find below a description of how Datadog's recorder handles masking based on data type and how that data is defined. 
### Text masking strategies

Depending on how you've configured your privacy settings, the type of text, and sensitivity of data, Datadog's masking rules apply different strategies to different types of text fields.

| Text masking strategy | Description | Example |
|-----------------------|-------------|---------|
| No mask | The text is revealed in the session replay | `"Hello world"` → `"Hello world"` |
| Space-preserving mask | Each visible character is replaced with a lowercase "x" | `"Hello world"` → `"xxxxx xxxxx"` |
| Fixed-length mask | The entire text field is replaced with a constant of three asterisks (***) | `"Hello world"` → `"***"`

> With the above text strategies in mind, you have a few different options if you want to override the default privacy rule of `mask all` in your configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With the above text strategies in mind, you have a few different options if you want to override the default privacy rule of `mask` in your configuration.
```

      .setPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.ALLOW)
      .build()
   SessionReplay.enable(sessionReplayConfig)
   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="swift" filename="AppDelegate.swift" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   // no masking; all text is revealed
   let configuration = SessionReplayConfiguration(privacy: .allowAll)
   sessionReplay = SessionReplay.initialize(with: configuration)
   sessionReplay.start()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Unmask data in all recorded content
By default, the Session Replay recorder masks all recorded content with `*` to ensure no sensitive information is visible in the recorded session. If you want to change this, add this option to **unmask data in all recorded content**:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Android" %}}

   {{< code-block lang="kotlin" filename="build.gradle" disable_copy="false" collapsible="true" >}}

   val sessionReplayConfig = SessionReplayConfiguration.Builder([sampleRate])
    ...
   .setSessionReplayPrivacy(SessionReplayPrivacy.[PRIVACY])
   .build()

   {{< /code-block >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "iOS" %}}

> This option is not available for iOS.

Author: @ncreated is this accurate, or is there a code snippet available?

Reviewer 4: The entire `### Unmask data in all recorded content` section doesn't make sense IMO and we should consider removing it. "Unmasking" is achieved with `### Allow all (no masking)`, so there is nothing new we can write here.

I share @jamiemilstein thoughts from [above comment](https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/18440/files#r1272655652).

Author: Removing this section @jamiemilstein
